# README

## Overview of IdentityInsight

IdentityInisght is a proof of concept app designed to help people who are sight impared. The underlying goal of the app is to allow someone to take a photo of the people in front of them and for the app to speak their names out (most likely through earphones that the user is wearing). Currently, for privacy reasons, we have a small number of test faces that the app will recognise. In the real implementation, users would be able to add the faces of the people they wished to recognise. This means that anyone who is not in the folder of images on our server will be identified as "Unknown".

## Installing IdentityInsight For Code Review 

For actual deployment, the app would be on the app store and could be downloaded by users. For our proof of concept, there are some extra steps that must be taken to install the app on your phone. Because the app uses the phone camera, it cannot be simulated using the xcode simulator, and must instead be installed on an actual iPhone. We have submitted a zip containing all the code of our project. Go into the unzipped folder and open the IDIFrontEnd folder. Open the IdentityInsight.xcodeproj. Now that this is open in xcode, click on IdentityInsight in the top left corner (above Alamofire.xcodeproj), then click Signing & Capabilities. Click on the team tab and log in with your own icloud account. Now, plug an iPhone into your computer. Change the target device in the top left hand corner to the name of the iPhone you are using. Now run the xcode project by clicking the play button. An error will be thrown because your device does not recognise your apple id as an allowed developer. To solve this, go to settings, general, Profiles & Device Management, click on your apple id and allow. Now you can move back to the IdentityInsight app that will be in your phone and run it. For the app to run properly, our server backend must also be running. We have included all of this backend code in the zip as well, although any steps with this code are unnecessary for the acquisition and use of our product. Although its main purpose is for review, this code may find some use in the very rare event that our server crashes, or if the reviewer would like to attempt to host their own version of the backend. If such a thing were desired, one could launch this backend simply through installing the necessary node packages with `npm install` and then running `node app.js` within the project folder in terminal. This would be best done on an EC2 instance (or perhaps the CS50 IDE!), as passing images to localhosts is typically unsuccessful. To wire the front end to a different EC2 backend, one would need only change the `url` of upload in `ViewController`. With one's own server running, one could feasibly add new known images by downloading them and copying them into the `images` folder on the server (perhaps via `scp`). Such images are parsed such that the file name becomes the name of the pictured individual in our script. Nonetheless, for basic use of our app, one needs only follow the steps pertaining to xcode download and installation, as the app is by default directed to our constantly running server. To view the files and history in a more user-friendly interface, one can visit our GitHub [repository](https://github.com/mbkarle/IdentityInsight).

## How to use IdentityInsight 

Accessability features on iOS will allow sight impared people to navigate the app when it is in use. Upon opening the app, the user will be faced with a button saying "take photo". When they click this button, the iphone camera will be opened. The user should then take a photo of the area that they are wanting to identify people in. Once taking the photo, they will confirm the use of the photo with a confirm photo button. This helps to ensure the photo is roughly of the scene that the user intends (specifically for users who are not completely blind). When they click the confirm photo button, the camera UI will disappear, the photo that was taken will appear in the middle of the app and after a small processing time, the names of the faces that the app recognizes will be read out audibly. If the app does not recognise anyone in the photo, it will say "I have found no one". The user is free to then use the "take photo" button again as many times as they like to identify the people in as many scenes of their choosing.